docs: client libraries (#38)
drand/website: docs/docs/clients.md

# Client libraries

Client libraries enable easy access to drand randomness in specific programming languages. They also provide piece of mind by _verifying_ randomness rounds and add additional features like failover, racing, aggregation, and caching.

Drand randomness is available over HTTP, [gRPC](https://grpc.io/) and [libp2p PubSub](https://docs.libp2p.io/concepts/publish-subscribe/), but availability of transports other than HTTP in client libraries is implementation dependent.

Choose a drand client library that matches the language in which your application is written:

- [Go](#go)
- [JS](#js)

Language not listed? You can make raw requests to the [HTTP API](/docs/http-api/). If you have created a client library or know of a client library not listed here, [please let us know by opening an issue](https://github.com/drand/website/issues/new).

> ## Go

Author: @willscott 🙏 it would be ace to get a review from you on the go client docs

### Install

```sh
go get github.com/drand/drand
```

> ### Usage

Reviewer: in the description of the base go client, we should provide explanation of the expected options that should be passed to `client.New`. These probably include:
* `WithCacheSize(128)`. (you probably want some caching in practice when using the client)
* `WithVerifiedResult(lastResult) / WithFullChainVerification()` - if you have persistent state and expect to be following the chain, you can get increased security by setting these.
* `WithAutoWatch()` - pre-load new results as they become available
* `WithPrometheus(r)` - report metrics on speed and performance to a provided prometheus registry.

[API reference on pkg.go.dev](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/drand/drand/client)

> First import the base client, which wraps clients operating over different transports (HTTP, gRPC, libp2p PubSub etc.) with configured aggregation, caching, and retry logic:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Drand client library is structured with a base client interface in `/client`, and with protocol-specific transport implementations in `/client/http`, `/client/grpc` and `/lp2p/client`. The main `client` package holds transport agnostic logic for retrying, validation, and caching.
```

::: warning
When using the client you _should_ use the `WithChainHash` or `WithChainInfo` option in order for your client to validate the randomness it receives is from the correct chain. You _may_ use the `Insecurely` option to bypass this validation but it is not recommended.
:::

#### HTTP

The HTTP client uses the [JSON HTTP API](/docs/http-api/) to fetch randomness. Watching is implemented by polling the endpoint at the expected round time. The [League of Entropy](https://blog.cloudflare.com/league-of-entropy/) provides a set of public HTTP API endpoints, which are listed in the [HTTP API reference](/docs/http-api/).

```go
package main

import (
    "context"
    "encoding/hex"
    "fmt"
    "github.com/drand/drand/client"
    "github.com/drand/drand/client/http"
)

const url = "https://drand.cloudflare.com"

> var chainHash, _ = hex.DecodeString("TODO-LOE-CHAIN-HASH")

Author: Note this needs to be filled in - the currently running version of drand does not expose this hash on the `/info` endpoint so it needs to be generated from the group info.

Reviewer: the current version semantics of e.g. latest are also different, so until there's an upgrade of the node software i don't think this is relevant

Author: 👍 I'll leave as a TODO for now until the upgrade and open an issue to track.

Author: https://github.com/drand/website/issues/52

        client.WithChainHash(chainHash),
    )
}
```

A path to a file that holds TLS credentials for the drand server is required to validate server connections. Alternatively set the final parameter to `true` to enable _insecure_ connections (not recommended).

Consult the [gRPC client API reference](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/drand/drand/client/grpc) for more information.

#### Libp2p PubSub

The [libp2p PubSub](https://docs.libp2p.io/concepts/publish-subscribe/) client is a special type of client called a "watcher" that receives randomness rounds by subscribing to a libp2p PubSub topic.

:::warning
This client can only be used to `Watch` for new randomness rounds and `Get` randomness rounds it has previously seen that are still in the cache.

If you need to `Get` arbitrary rounds from the chain then you must combine this client with a [HTTP](#http) or [gRPC](#grpc) client.
:::

Drand _does not_ publish randomness rounds over libp2p PubSub by default but provides a [relay tool](/operate/drand-cli/#drand-relay-gossip) that performs this task. The [League of Entropy](https://blog.cloudflare.com/league-of-entropy/) provide the following public drand libp2p PubSub relays:

> - `/dns4/todo/p2p/QmPeerID`

Author: @hsanjuan will we run public libp2p pubsub relays for the LoE? If so what's the dnsaddr likely to be? `/dnsaddr/drand.protocol.ai`?
